Add changelog for 0.12 release (#2420)
serenity-rs/serenity: CHANGELOG.md

| `Interaction::application_command` | `Interaction::command` |
| `EventHandler::application_command_permissions_update` | `EventHandler::command_permissions_update` |
| `Route::ApplicationCommand*` | `Route::Command*` |
| `Permissions::use_application_commands` | `Permissions::use_commands` |

Additionally, the following command types have been renamed:
| serenity v0.11 | serenity v0.12 |
| --- | --- |
| `CreateApplicationCommand` | `CreateCommand` |
| `CreateApplicationCommandOption` | `CreateCommandOption` |
| `CreateApplicationCommandPermissionData` | `CreateCommandPermission` |
| `CreateApplicationCommandPermissionsData` | `EditCommandPermissions` |
| `CommandPermission` | `CommandPermissions` |
| `CommandPermissionData` | `CommandPermission` |

Also, the methods on `CreateCommandPermission`, such as `new`, `kind`, etc. have been replaced with constructors for each type of permission, e.g. `role`, `user`, `channel`, etc., to avoid a possible mismatch between `kind` and the id that gets passed in.

Finally, the `{GuildId,Guild,PartialGuild}::create_command_permission` method has been renamed to `edit_command_permission` to more accurately reflect its behavior.

### Cache

> * Cache methods now (mostly) return a `CacheRef` type that wraps a reference into the internal `DashMap` used by the cache. Some others return a wrapper type around the whole `DashMap`, but with a limited API to prevent accidental deadlocks. This all helps reduce the number of clones when querying the cache. Those wishing to replicate the old behavior can simply clone the references wholesale to obtain the wrapped data.

Reviewer: Should this be referencing DashMap so heavily? One of the main reasons for CacheRef was to abstract away DashMap's internals to allow for a non-breaking cache replacement.

Author: Removed the refs to `DashMap` by name.

* ([#1897](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/1897), [#2350](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2350)) `Typing::stop` now returns `bool` instead of `Option<()>`. Also, `Typing::start` and any wrapper methods are now infallible.
* ([#1922](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/1922), [#1940](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/1940), [#2090](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2090)) The following methods are no longer `async`:
    - `ChannelId::name`
    - `Context::*`
    - `Guild::{members_starting_with, members_containing, members_username_containing, members_nick_containing}`
    - `Guild::default_channel`
    - `PartialGuild::greater_member_hierarchy`
    - `ShardManager::new`
    - `UserId::to_user_cached`
* ([#1929](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/1929)) Unbox the `Error::Http` variant.
* ([#1930](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/1930)) Change `Id` types to wrap `NonZeroU64` instead of `u64`. The new API is as follows:
    - `ExampleId(12345)` -> `ExampleId::new(12345)`
    - `example_id.0` -> `example_id.get()`

>     - `example_id.as_u64()` -> `example_id.as_inner()`

Reviewer: This is a pretty major change for users hard coding IDs in their code, especially using ID `0` as a dummy value, so should be given it's own section.

Author: Done. Also realized that `.get` and `.as_inner` were swapped.

* ([#2005](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2005)) Change `MessageActivityKind` variants to use CamelCase instead of ALL_CAPS.
* ([#2007](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2007), [#2018](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2018)) Rework presence setting and storing as follows:
    - Replace `CurrentPresence` with a `PresenceData` struct.
    - Use `ActivityData` in place of `Activity` for setting the current presence.
    - Change the various `set_activity` methods to take an `Option<ActivityData>` to allow for clearing the current presence by passing in `None`.
    - Add support for setting a presence when first identifying to the gateway by adding presence methods to `ClientBuilder`, and adding an optional `presence` parameter to `Shard::new`.
* ([#2008](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2008)) Unknown values for enum variants are now preserved for debugging purposes. Any `Unknown` variants on enums are now changed to `Unknown(u8)`. Also, the `num` method for those enums is removed; users should call `u8::from` instead.

> * ([#2009](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2009)) Replace the `InterMessage::Json` variant with a `json` method to replicate the old behavior.

Reviewer: `InterMessage` was removed above.

 2. Builders can be constructed once and then cloned and re-used multiple times.
 3. Enforcement of field requirements (as dictated by the Discord API docs) prevents invalid requests at compile-time.

### Attachments

* The `AttachmentType` enum has been replaced with a `CreateAttachment` builder struct. This struct has the `file`, `path`, and `url` constructors that eagerly evaluate the data passed to them - `CreateAttachment` simply stores the resulting raw data. This is in contrast to `AttachmentType` which lazily carried filepaths/urls with it, and had `data` and `filename` methods for resolving them.
* The `utils::encode_image` function has been replaced with `CreateAttachment::to_base64`.

### Collectors

Collectors have been redesigned and simplified at no cost to expressibility. There is now a generic `collector::collect` function which takes a closure as argument, letting you filter events as they stream in.
* The specific collectors (`ComponentInteractionCollector`, `ModalInteractionCollector`, `MessageCollector`, and `ReactionCollector`) are simply convenience structs that wrap this underlying function.

> * `EventCollector` is now deprecated, as its use usually involved anti-patterns around falliblity. However, its functionality can still be replicated using `collector::collect`. See example 10 for more details.

Reviewer 2: typo in `falliblity`, should be `fallibility`

* The `RelatedId` and `RelatedIdsForEventType` types have been removed as they were only used by `EventCollector`. Methods for retrieving them from events have also been removed; if users wish to extract "related" ids from an event, they should do so directly from the event's fields. The removed methods are the following:
    - `Event::user_id`
    - `Event::guild_id`
    - `Event::channel_id`
    - `Event::message_id`
    - `EventType::related_ids`

### Commands

> Serenity now uses simply `command` instead of `application_command` in all places, except for the `Permissions::USE_APPLICATION_COMMANDS` constant. This includes methods on the `Http`, `GuildId`, `Guild`, `PartialGuild`, and `Command` types, as well as a few miscellaneous places:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Serenity now uses simply `command` instead of `application_command` in all places to make paths less unwieldy, except for the `Permissions::USE_APPLICATION_COMMANDS` constant. This includes methods on the `Http`, `GuildId`, `Guild`, `PartialGuild`, and `Command` types, as well as a few miscellaneous places:
```
Trying to avoid the change to come across as arbitrary

| `Interaction::application_command` | `Interaction::command` |
| `EventHandler::application_command_permissions_update` | `EventHandler::command_permissions_update` |
| `Route::ApplicationCommand*` | `Route::Command*` |
| `Permissions::use_application_commands` | `Permissions::use_commands` |

Additionally, the following command types have been renamed:
| serenity v0.11 | serenity v0.12 |
| --- | --- |
| `CreateApplicationCommand` | `CreateCommand` |
| `CreateApplicationCommandOption` | `CreateCommandOption` |
| `CreateApplicationCommandPermissionData` | `CreateCommandPermission` |
| `CreateApplicationCommandPermissionsData` | `EditCommandPermissions` |
| `CommandPermission` | `CommandPermissions` |
| `CommandPermissionData` | `CommandPermission` |

Also, the methods on `CreateCommandPermission`, such as `new`, `kind`, etc. have been replaced with constructors for each type of permission, e.g. `role`, `user`, `channel`, etc., to avoid a possible mismatch between `kind` and the id that gets passed in.

Finally, the `{GuildId,Guild,PartialGuild}::create_command_permission` method has been renamed to `edit_command_permission` to more accurately reflect its behavior.

### Cache

> * Cache methods now (mostly) return a `CacheRef` type that wraps a reference into the cache. Other methods that returned a map, now return a wrapper type around a reference to the map, with a limited API to prevent accidental deadlocks. This all helps reduce the number of clones when querying the cache. Those wishing to replicate the old behavior can simply clone the references wholesale to obtain the wrapped data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Cache methods now (mostly) return a `CacheRef` type that wraps a reference into the cache. Other methods that returned a map, now return a wrapper type around a reference to the map, with a limited API to prevent accidental deadlocks. This all helps reduce the number of clones when querying the cache. Those wishing to replicate the old behavior can simply call `.clone()` on the wrapper type to obtain the wrapped data.
```
(more correct phrasing)

Author: imo "return type" flows a bit better than "wrapper type"

> * `CacheSettings` has new fields `time_to_live`, `cache_guilds`, `cache_channels`, and `cache_users`, allowing cache configuration on systems with memory requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `CacheSettings` has new fields `time_to_live`, `cache_guilds`, `cache_channels`, and `cache_users`, allowing cache configuration on systems with memory requirements.
  * Memory-constrained systems previously had to disable the cache infrastructure completely, including important bits like the bot's user ID
```

### MSRV
Serenity now uses Rust edition 2021, with an MSRV of Rust 1.68.

### Miscellaneous

#### Added

* ([#1923](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/1923)) Add a `Webhook::execute_in_thread` method, and a `thread_id` parameter to `Http::execute_webhook`.
* ([#2104](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2104), [#2105](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2105)) Add an `audit_log_reason` parameter to many `Http` methods and builder structs.
* [#2164](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2164)) Add `EventHandler::shards_ready` method.
* ([#2186](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2186), [#2201](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2201)) Add support for having a bot interactions endpoint URL.
* ([#2215](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2215)) Implement `Default` for many model types.
* ([#2233](https://github.com/serenity-rs/serenity/pull/2233)) Add `button` and `select_menu` methods to the following builders:
    - `CreateInteractionResponseMessage`
    - `CreateInteractionResponseFollowup`
    - `EditInteractionResponse`

>     - `CreatMessage`

Reviewer 2: should be `CreateMessage`

Method names on interaction types have been shortened in the following way:

| serenity v0.11 | serenity v0.12 |
| --- | --- |
| `create_interaction_response` | `create_response` |
| `create_followup_message` | `create_followup` |
| `delete_original_interaction_response` | `delete_response` |
| `delete_followup_message` | `delete_followup` |
| `edit_original_interaction_response` | `edit_response` |
| `edit_followup_message` | `edit_followup` |
| `get_interaction_response` | `get_response` |
| `get_followup_message` | `get_followup` |

* `AutocompleteInteraction` has been merged into `CommandInteraction`, along with its corresponding methods.
* Add `as_*` and `into_*` helper methods to the `Interaction` type for converting to each of its respective variants.
* The `kind` field has been removed from each of the interaction structs.
* A `quick_modal` method has been added to `CommandInteraction` and `ComponentInteraction`. See the docs for more details.
* A `defer_ephemeral` helper method has been added to many interaction types.

### Framework

* The standard framework is now configurable at runtime, as the `configure` method now takes `self` by reference.

> * The `Framework` trait has been reworked - the `dispatch` method now takes a `FullEvent` enum as argument, which allows for more flexibility. Also, there is now an added optional `init` method.

Reviewer 3: We could add the motivation for this change:

```md
The standard framework is now configurable at runtime, as the `configure` method now takes `self` by reference.

The `Framework` trait has been reworked to work for much more use cases than just text commands:
* The `dispatch` method now takes a `FullEvent` instead of just `Message`
  * `FullEvent` contains all the data that is passed to `EventHandler`.
* The `Framework` trait gained the `init(&mut self, &Client)` method to execute HTTP requests and access cache and shard data on startup.

With these changes, the `Framework` trait becomes suitable for alternative frameworks like [poise](https://github.com/serenity-rs/poise/).
```

Author: Addressed in most recent commit.

    - `return_with_value`
    - `shutdown_finished`
    - `restart_shard`
    - `update_shard_latency_and_stage`
* The `ShardClientMessage` and `InterMessage` enums were deemed redundant wrappers around `ShardRunnerMessage` and removed - users should use `ShardRunnerMessage` directly instead.
* The `ShardManagerError` type is removed in favor of `GatewayError`.
* Serenity's handling of gateway heartbeats has been made more accurate and type safe as follows:
    - Removed `Shard::heartbeat_instants`. Users should instead use the `last_heartbeat_{sent,ack}` methods, which now return `Option<Instant>` instead of `Option<&Instant>`.
    - Changed `Shard::heartbeat_interval` to return `Option<Duration>` instead of `Option<u64>`.
    - Rename `Shard::check_heartbeat` to `do_heartbeat`.
* `ShardMessenger::new` now takes `&ShardRunner` as argument instead of `Sender<ShardRunnerMessage>`.

> * Removed the `ShardRunnerMessage::AddCollector` variant. Users can still call the `ShardMessenger::add_collector` method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Removed the `ShardRunnerMessage::AddCollector` variant in favor of the `ShardMessenger::add_collector` method.
  * `add_collector` adds the collector immediately, while `ShardRunnerMessage`'s are only polled periodically. This caused collectors to miss the first event sometimes, which `add_collector` fixes.
```

Author: Ditto.

Some benefits to this new approach to builders are:

 1. Because every closure has a type unique to it, each call to a method taking a closure would be monomorphized separately, resulting in binary bloat. This is no longer the case.
 2. Builders can be constructed once and then cloned and re-used multiple times.
 3. Enforcement of field requirements (as dictated by the Discord API docs) provides compile-time request validation.

### Attachments

* The `AttachmentType` enum has been replaced with a `CreateAttachment` builder struct. This struct has the `file`, `path`, and `url` constructors that eagerly evaluate the data passed to them - `CreateAttachment` simply stores the resulting raw data. This is in contrast to `AttachmentType` which lazily carried filepaths/urls with it, and had `data` and `filename` methods for resolving them.

> * The `utils::encode_image` function has been replaced with `CreateAttachment::to_base64`.

Reviewer: This was `pub(crate)`, so should not be in the release notes

* Cache methods now (mostly) return a `CacheRef` type that wraps a reference into the cache. Other methods that returned a map, now return a wrapper type around a reference to the map, with a limited API to prevent accidental deadlocks. This all helps reduce the number of clones when querying the cache. Those wishing to replicate the old behavior can simply call `.clone()` on the return type to obtain the wrapped data.
* `CacheSettings` has new fields `time_to_live`, `cache_guilds`, `cache_channels`, and `cache_users`, allowing cache configuration on systems with memory requirements; whereas previously, memory-constrained systems were forced to disable caching altogether.

> * One notable behavioral change is that `PrivateChannel`s (aka DM channels) are no longer cached, as they are never sent across the gateway by Discord. Therefore, the `Cache::{private_channel, private_channels}` methods have been removed, and `Cache::guild_channel` has been renamed to just `Cache::channel`. Additionally, some uses of the `Channel` enum in return types have been replaced with either `GuildChannel` or `PrivateChannel` as seen fit.

Reviewer: Non blocking nitpick: this isn't a behavioral change, serenity hasn't cached `PrivateChannel`s since API v8.
